README.md, before:

# LoveWords

> *"Find the words to say 'I love you, mom.'"*

**LoveWords** is a free, open-source AAC tool for the words that matter most: love, gratitude, comfort, apology, and connection.

---

## Mission

**Give every AAC user an easy, dignified way to express heartfelt connection—especially the words that matter most to family.**

---

## ✨ Recent Updates

### Sprint 3 Complete: Board Export/Import (January 2024)

You can now **export and import boards** using the standard Open Board Format (OBF):

- 📤 **Export custom boards** as `.obf` files for backup and sharing
- 📥 **Import boards** from local files or URLs
- 🔄 **Share boards** with family, therapists, and the community
- ✅ **Full OBF validation** ensures compatibility
- 💾 **Backup and restore** your boards across devices

**Try it:** Create a custom board, click the export button (📤), and share it with others!

See [Sprint 3 completion report](lovewords-web/.github/SPRINT_3_COMPLETION.md) for full details.

---

## Who It's For

- **AAC users** who want fast access to relationship language—including nonspeaking and minimally speaking autistic people
- **Families** who want to hear "I love you," "thank you," and "I'm sorry" from someone they love
- **Therapists, educators, and caregivers** who support emotional expression and connection

---

## Why LoveWords?

### Relationship-First
Many AAC tools focus on needs: *eat, drink, help.* LoveWords starts from connection: *I love you. I miss you. Thank you. I'm proud of you.* The emotional vocabulary that changes families.

### Works Immediately
No complex setup. No weeks of configuration. A parent should be able to hand this to their child and watch them say "I love you, grandma" in minutes.

### Open and Portable
Your boards belong to you. Export them, share them, remix them. No vendor lock-in. No proprietary formats.

### Private by Default
No accounts required. No tracking. Works offline. The words between you and your family stay between you.

### Designed for Real Moments
Bedtime. Goodbyes. Apologies. Celebrations. Missing someone. We build for the moments when the right words matter most.

---

## What It Does

LoveWords provides simple, dependable communication boards focused on relationship language:

- **Love & Affection** — *I love you, you're my favorite, big hugs*
- **Gratitude** — *Thank you, I appreciate you, you helped me*
- **Comfort & Reassurance** — *It's okay, I'm here, you're safe*
- **Apology & Repair** — *I'm sorry, can we start over, I still love you*
- **Missing Someone** — *I miss you, wish you were here, thinking of you*
- **Moments** — Quick boards for bedtime, goodbye, celebration, and overwhelm

**Customize and Share:**
- Create custom boards with your own vocabulary
- Add photos of family members and familiar places
- Export boards to share with caregivers and therapists
- Import community boards or create your own library
- Switch scanning for accessible navigation

---

## Principles

| Principle | What It Means |
|-----------|---------------|
| **Free forever** | No cost, no subscriptions, no premium tiers |
| **Privacy-first** | No tracking, no accounts, works offline |
| **Open source** | Community-owned, transparent, forkable |
| **Accessible** | Switch scanning, eye gaze, touch, keyboard |
| **Inclusive** | All family structures, cultures, languages |
| **Portable** | Your boards go where you go |

---

## First Boards

The starter set ships with boards for:

1. **Love & Affection** — express love in many ways
2. **Gratitude & Appreciation** — say thank you meaningfully
3. **Comfort & Reassurance** — support and be supported
4. **Apology & Repair** — make things right
5. **Missing Someone** — bridge distance and absence
6. **Moments** — bedtime, goodbye, celebration, overwhelm

Each board is designed for inclusivity: flexible family slots (not just "Mom and Dad"), cultural adaptability, and age-appropriate tone options.

---

## Why Open Source?

**For families:** No cost barrier. No lock-in. Your boards are yours forever.

**For the community:** Collective ownership. Transparency. The power to improve it.

**What we promise:**
- Core functionality stays free
- No selling user data, ever
- Boards remain portable and open
- Community voice in major decisions

**What we won't do:**
- Track your communication
- Require accounts for basic use
- Create artificial limitations
- Abandon or close-source the project

---

## How to Contribute

You don't need to code to help. Here's how to get involved:

### Share Your Experience
If you use AAC or support someone who does, your perspective is invaluable. Tell us what phrases your family needs, what moments are hardest, what's missing.

### Create Boards
Design boards for specific communities: cultural adaptations, translations, different family structures, age-specific vocabulary.

### Spread the Word
Tell families, therapists, and schools who might benefit.

### Give Feedback
Try the boards. Tell us what works. Help us improve.

### Contribute Code or Design
Check [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

---

## The Vision

For the full north star vision—including our complete board designs, detailed principles, and elevator pitches—see [docs/VISION.md](docs/VISION.md).

---

## License

LoveWords is released under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE). Communication tools should remain free and open, forever.

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>Everyone has something to say.</strong><br>
  <em>LoveWords helps them say what matters most.</em>
</p>

Commit message:

Update README with Sprint 4 features
Highlight new capabilities from Sprint 4:
- Drag-and-drop board import
- Export all boards as ZIP
- Enhanced search and filter
- Share via link or QR code
- Better board management

Updated Recent Updates section to show Sprint 4 as latest.
Expanded Customize and Share section with new features.

README.md, after:

# LoveWords

> *"Find the words to say 'I love you, mom.'"*

**LoveWords** is a free, open-source AAC tool for the words that matter most: love, gratitude, comfort, apology, and connection.

---

## Mission

**Give every AAC user an easy, dignified way to express heartfelt connection—especially the words that matter most to family.**

---

## ✨ Recent Updates

### Sprint 4 Complete: Polish & Sharing (January 2026)

Major UX improvements to make LoveWords easier to use and share:

- 🎯 **Drag-and-drop import** — Drop `.obf` files anywhere to import boards
- 📦 **Export all boards** — Backup your entire collection as a single ZIP file
- 🔍 **Enhanced search and filter** — Find boards quickly by grid size, date, or type
- 🔗 **Share via link or QR code** — Share boards instantly without file transfers
- ⚡ **Better board management** — Sort, filter, and organize large collections

**New capabilities:**
- Drop multiple board files at once for batch import
- Export all custom boards with one click (includes manifest)
- Filter boards by 3×3, 4×4, 5×4, 6×6 grid sizes
- Sort by name, date, or button count
- Generate shareable links and QR codes (no backend needed!)
- Preferences persist across sessions

**Try it:** Import boards by dragging them onto the window, filter by grid size, or click the share button (🔗) to generate a QR code!

See [Development Log](lovewords-web/docs/DEVELOPMENT_LOG.md) for full technical details.

### Sprint 3 Complete: Board Export/Import (January 2026)

Foundation for board portability using the standard Open Board Format (OBF):

- 📤 **Export custom boards** as `.obf` files for backup and sharing
- 📥 **Import boards** from local files or URLs
- ✅ **Full OBF validation** ensures compatibility
- 💾 **Backup and restore** your boards across devices

See [Sprint 3 completion report](lovewords-web/.github/SPRINT_3_COMPLETION.md) for full details.

---

## Who It's For

- **AAC users** who want fast access to relationship language—including nonspeaking and minimally speaking autistic people
- **Families** who want to hear "I love you," "thank you," and "I'm sorry" from someone they love
- **Therapists, educators, and caregivers** who support emotional expression and connection

---

## Why LoveWords?

### Relationship-First
Many AAC tools focus on needs: *eat, drink, help.* LoveWords starts from connection: *I love you. I miss you. Thank you. I'm proud of you.* The emotional vocabulary that changes families.

### Works Immediately
No complex setup. No weeks of configuration. A parent should be able to hand this to their child and watch them say "I love you, grandma" in minutes.

### Open and Portable
Your boards belong to you. Export them, share them, remix them. No vendor lock-in. No proprietary formats.

### Private by Default
No accounts required. No tracking. Works offline. The words between you and your family stay between you.

### Designed for Real Moments
Bedtime. Goodbyes. Apologies. Celebrations. Missing someone. We build for the moments when the right words matter most.

---

## What It Does

LoveWords provides simple, dependable communication boards focused on relationship language:

- **Love & Affection** — *I love you, you're my favorite, big hugs*
- **Gratitude** — *Thank you, I appreciate you, you helped me*
- **Comfort & Reassurance** — *It's okay, I'm here, you're safe*
- **Apology & Repair** — *I'm sorry, can we start over, I still love you*
- **Missing Someone** — *I miss you, wish you were here, thinking of you*
- **Moments** — Quick boards for bedtime, goodbye, celebration, and overwhelm

**Customize and Share:**
- Create custom boards with your own vocabulary
- Add photos of family members and familiar places
- Drag-and-drop to import multiple boards at once
- Export single boards or your entire collection as ZIP
- Share boards via link or QR code (instant, no files needed)
- Search, filter, and sort large board collections
- Import boards from URLs, files, or QR codes
- Switch scanning for accessible navigation

---

## Principles

| Principle | What It Means |
|-----------|---------------|
| **Free forever** | No cost, no subscriptions, no premium tiers |
| **Privacy-first** | No tracking, no accounts, works offline |
| **Open source** | Community-owned, transparent, forkable |
| **Accessible** | Switch scanning, eye gaze, touch, keyboard |
| **Inclusive** | All family structures, cultures, languages |
| **Portable** | Your boards go where you go |

---

## First Boards

The starter set ships with boards for:

1. **Love & Affection** — express love in many ways
2. **Gratitude & Appreciation** — say thank you meaningfully
3. **Comfort & Reassurance** — support and be supported
4. **Apology & Repair** — make things right
5. **Missing Someone** — bridge distance and absence
6. **Moments** — bedtime, goodbye, celebration, overwhelm

Each board is designed for inclusivity: flexible family slots (not just "Mom and Dad"), cultural adaptability, and age-appropriate tone options.

---

## Why Open Source?

**For families:** No cost barrier. No lock-in. Your boards are yours forever.

**For the community:** Collective ownership. Transparency. The power to improve it.

**What we promise:**
- Core functionality stays free
- No selling user data, ever
- Boards remain portable and open
- Community voice in major decisions

**What we won't do:**
- Track your communication
- Require accounts for basic use
- Create artificial limitations
- Abandon or close-source the project

---

## How to Contribute

You don't need to code to help. Here's how to get involved:

### Share Your Experience
If you use AAC or support someone who does, your perspective is invaluable. Tell us what phrases your family needs, what moments are hardest, what's missing.

### Create Boards
Design boards for specific communities: cultural adaptations, translations, different family structures, age-specific vocabulary.

### Spread the Word
Tell families, therapists, and schools who might benefit.

### Give Feedback
Try the boards. Tell us what works. Help us improve.

### Contribute Code or Design
Check [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

---

## The Vision

For the full north star vision—including our complete board designs, detailed principles, and elevator pitches—see [docs/VISION.md](docs/VISION.md).

---

## License

LoveWords is released under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE). Communication tools should remain free and open, forever.

---

<p align="center">
  <strong>Everyone has something to say.</strong><br>
  <em>LoveWords helps them say what matters most.</em>
</p>
